good morning YouTube it is about 6:45
a.m. on July 7th and it is time for our
fifth weekly garden tour of the summer
of 2018 you guys ready to go check it
out
[Music]
I've been asked several times what are
the tires for and they actually have
flowers planted in them they I just put
these up and just planted the flowers a
weaker and a half or so ago but they're
all varieties that will trail out so
it'll be a little more obvious soon why
we hung these on our fence so the newest
addition to the garden
Jeremih installed last night this is the
mama needs some space much bless that
man
it feels amazing out here yesterday we
got some rain that we really needed and
right now it's about 72 degrees today
the high is only 90 which is a nice
break from what her husband yesterday
before it started raining it was a
hundred with a heat index of like
hundred and eleven or something like
that cuz the humidity gets really high
but I'm really enjoying this nice
weather that doesn't make you feel like
you want to tie it today I have got I've
got my gathering hard which for those of
you who have asked this is from
gardeners supply I will link it down in
the description I really love this
basket because it has a coated wire so
it doesn't damage your stuff but I'm
going to do a video some of my favorite
garden tools this week and that's
definitely going to make the list
I'm also brought out just this shallow
box it's just a box from canning jars
which I'm going to use to gather my
tomatoes because it is best to keep
those in a single layer I know I have
piled up this basket a few times because
those are the tomatoes that I'm planning
on processing right away so if they get
just a little bit damaged it doesn't
matter that much but I am wanting to
make a habit of gathering them in a
single layer I also have brought out
Ziploc bags for putting seeds in that
I'm saving because it's getting to the
point that I'm not just harvesting food
anymore I'm starting to save seeds a lot
of seeds you have to take in and firm it
first which I will also be doing a video
about that probably this week as well
about how to save seeds of that nature
however a lot of seeds like flowers
beans and that sort of thing they dry
out in the garden and so you can go
ahead and put them directly into a
ziplock baggie out in the garden I got
all my solar lanterns out here I just
ordered some hooks to put those they're
all wet from the rain but seem to be
doing just fine I also have my route
apron last week you guys saw me wearing
the full apron this is the half apron I
think it's called the Joey but I got a
lot of questions about this too and it
will also be in my favorite garden tools
video it's actually a friend of mine
that runs this company and I she's
precious
their stuff is awesome I absolutely
suggest this I will link their website
down below too I don't get like paid
anything for promoting them however I
really think that this is an awesome
garden tool and I genuinely use it just
about every day throughout the
harvesting season in my garden alright
before we get started I'm going to take
my water bottle back to this back corner
of my garden where the mint grows and
pick some mint leaves to put in my water
this bed is wedi G somebody needs to
take care of this garden alright so I'm
just gonna pick a handful of leaves and
stick them in my water bottle as well
it's nice and cool now these tours take
about two hours and I know by the end a
nice cold drink of mint water would will
be much appreciated I don't always say
this but it's very very important to
hydrate
the Sun is coming to the party just
popped over the trees okay let's go back
to that and start our tour these squash
plants are coming along I thought we
were gonna lose that one because one of
its stems just shriveled up but I just
cut off the stem that was affected and
the whole plant got a lot healthier so
I'm not sure if it was like getting some
sort of wilt or if it had I don't think
it could have been vine bores because
they would have gone after the root but
whatever it was cutting off the affected
part saved the whole plant these are
starting to climb a little bit as well
as these down here now
squash does climb pretty naturally they
grow these tendrils however the vines
are a little heavy especially when they
start to get these you know these little
fruits on them so what I'll do a lot of
times is just sort of gently weave it
back through I don't want to break those
hollow stems but I'll just kind of stick
them through and try to lay them on top
of this you know we'll go under and come
back up and lay on top that way these
tendrils can grab hold and the plant can
grow up the moon and the stars melon is
finally catching up with the rest when
we've had a slow start and I find that
sometimes that's how it is with some
heirlooms they just take a little longer
than others to get going but this one
finally has its first blossom lots of
green tomatoes in the Indian garden and
I need to come out here and
and stake these guys they're looking
looking really healthy I got a new wind
chime when Clarence at Walmart this week
for seven dollars this we're stepping
into like the best time to buy like
cutesy decoration stuff for your garden
for good deals at the end of the season
as whenever I tend to pick up all of the
little you know stakes and little flags
and wind chimes and all of that sort of
thing because they all go on clearance
as they as the stores are bringing back
in back-to-school stuff so keep an eye
out and you know especially box stores
not necessarily garden centers because
that's what they specialize in all the
time but in box stores this is the time
to get some steals on stuff to decorate
your garden the Charleston Gray melons
I'm getting some size to them you can
see some of the other watermelons here
we've got quite a lot I came through
yesterday and took what straw we had and
did some mulching on the rows of the
in-ground garden oh wow look at this one
I'm so excited of how long I know I
mentioned that before but I really am
very excited that plant had gotten henna
set and I had pulled off some of the
sick parts and just left it and it's
really started to pull back through I
wasn't sure what was going to happen but
I decided to to leave it there because
it didn't seem to be affecting any of
the other plants no I'm flying all over
here's one of my ground cherries and the
other
I think we should take a moment of
silence for this falling ground cherry
he was a good ground cherry brought a
lot of joy to the garden never asked for
much a little water and a little Sun I
don't know what happened to that plant
came out one day it was dead as a
doornail such as gardening sometimes I
guess how do you try to learn you know
like different diseases different pests
I read a lot about it but sometimes what
it boils down to is you just don't know
I mean I was driving myself crazy at the
beginning of this year because I had
some plants would just be shriveled up
and dead and I was researching I'm
trying to figure out what is going on
what's killing my plants and you know I
was I found all different kinds of
suggestions but most people were
completely disagreed on it and then one
day I came out and in the area that I
kept replanting and the plants kept
dying I found my cat scratching in the
bed and using it as a litter box I was
like man that didn't show up on my
search so I've kind of come to the
conclusion that it's good to know and
it's good to do what you can to prevent
it but especially whenever you've
committed to growing as naturally as
possible and not using a bunch of
chemicals sometimes you're just gonna
have to watch your plants die now again
it's good to know so you can burp in it
when you can but occasionally when one
random plant just shows up completely
dead one morning I kind of take the
stance of being like oh well it was sad
we really loved ground cherries these
squash plants are doing amazing seem to
have no issues with them and here's the
little young one coming up and we're
gonna go ahead and plant some more in
the garden beds
[Music]
this is a golden patty-pan squash I
really like patty-pan squash they taste
very similar to like a yellow crookneck
they might have a slightly nuttier taste
and you just cut them up like normal and
you can cook them just like you would
any other summer squash but they're
they're kind of neat looking and it's
not something that you can readily buy
in stores the bees are here today
these are kakizou zucchini squash and
I'm not going to pick them cuz they're
really small but they'll probably be
ready in the next day or two this is
glass Jim corn which if you haven't seen
it it is incredibly beautiful it is all
different colors I knew I wasn't gonna
be growing much corn this year and since
you can go to Whole Foods and buy
organic corn for a relatively cheap I
wasn't super stressed about growing corn
however I wanted to grow something that
I couldn't buy so I did the glass Jim
now next year we are actually planning
on working through the fall on setting
up some back to Eden gardening spaces
using some areas in our backyard and
also doing our front yard now the front
yard will be more like a cottage garden
for flowers and perennials but the back
yard is where we're going to do more of
our space our space hogs like corn and
we may be moving our melons back there
next year I'm not a hundred percent sure
what Jeremiah and I are discussing is
the possibility of turning this space
where we are currently into the areas
where we set up very vicious being that
this is real close to the house and that
it is fully fenced we feel like we can
probably protect it a little bit better
from
dear and any sort of thing that would
come and eat all our berries of course
would still have to do like bird netting
but up until this point we have not
established a place for things to come
back year after year
another thing we would probably plant up
here is asparagus
I have not established an asparagus bed
and I really want to because we love
asparagus the okras that we planted here
most of them did not come up I was using
some old seeds so that might be what it
was but I've got one from the first
planting and one from the second time
when we replant it we actually took this
gate drove it down with a tee post and
attach it with zip ties and I put in a
couple of cucumber seeds at the bottom
of this game because I was really just
curious how the cucumbers would do in
the in-ground garden and I have started
pulling some of my original cucumber
plants out as they started to dwindle
with the heat and my thought with these
is is if I plant them now they'll be
coming up to the point of setting their
fruit at the end of August which will
still be quite hot but it'll be you know
on the decline as far as temperatures go
and the sunflowers down here are looking
wonderful I started mulching around them
to keep the weeds down this won't
completely like kill the grass
underneath but it will keep it from
growing up big and mound eight and look
here Oh starting to get flower heads on
them very very excited about this
another one back there
[Music]
the in-ground garden is looking
wonderful I'm very glad that we decided
to plant that we almost did it
we finished our garden beds this year
and we thought I mean obviously so
bought a space we'll just leave it at
that this is plenty but I knew and I
would not if if we just stuck with the
garden beds I knew I would not be
planting many sunflowers I would not be
planting any corn and I knew I was going
to be really limited on rambling things
like winter squashes and watermelons so
this was almost like an afterthought
that we had this space it was not fenced
in but it was flat and we thought well
let's just give it a try and see what
happens
we were fully prepared for this
in-ground garden to completely fail we
tilled the rows and amended them with
manure from our horses bedding from our
goat barn composted chicken bedding and
just tilled all of that in and we only
amended the rows where stuff was planted
we did not amend the walkways so we
amended put the weed barrier down and
planted most of this came from seed the
tomato plants did start from little
seedlings but yeah this is just turned
out to be a really wonderful garden
space and we're gonna end up having a
lot of food from it in the first bed we
have a few peppers here a couple more
I'm going to leave those growing because
they can stand to get a little bit
bigger and I'm gonna use them in my next
batch of salsa which I can't make right
now if they don't have any cilantro
there's a little pimento peppers
starting to change colors I think I
ended up with three eggplants that
pulled through from the flea beetle
massacre at the beginning of the season
and these two have some flowers so we
may end up with some eggplants after all
before it's all said and done
oh my poor runner beans may have
remembered me telling you about these
beans if you've been watching these
garden tours from the beginning but
I ended up in a discussion with a
gardener that lives in Wales who has
been growing this particular being and
developing it in his garden for over 50
years and the beans themselves were like
this big
dried they're massive and when I got
them we all joked that they were gonna
grow a magic Beanstalk however I didn't
realize that they were runner beans and
I took a leap and planted all of them
and they're not doing very well one
thing that I have learned this year the
hard way is that runner beans really
don't like the heat now I read that they
did better than other beans and cooler
temperatures but I did not take that to
mean that they will absolutely refuse to
grow in the heat which actually seems to
be a more apt depiction of what they do
when it's hot outside now these are
getting a few more blossoms and I have a
few young beans on them so far the young
beans that they've set have dried up and
fallen off but I'm gonna leave these
plants just with the hope that I get at
least you know a couple of pods off of
them reckon save the seeds and try again
during a cooler time of year so the
little Keuka melons we've been watching
for the last month have finally started
climbing these plants blew me away over
on my other trellis or now they are just
completely taking over that space
because they got such a slow start and
when they started climbing they exploded
so I'm really curious to see how much
progress these make in the next week so
our daughter Malia lives with her mom in
Las Vegas and she visits us on summers
and holidays now she really loves being
in the garden and last year her favorite
job was to pick the cherry tomatoes
slice them all in half and put them in
the dehydrator she kept the dehydrator
running with cherry tomatoes and
everybody loved it but her favorite
cherry tomato is Brad's atomic grate by
wild-boar farms now this year those
ended up at the cover photo on Baker
Creek so everybody's really familiar
with them
and so I planted her these three plants
kind of over here in their own little
spot by the flowers right by the front
of the garden as a special thing because
when I was a little girl my mom used to
plant plants for me I remember she
bought me a purple rosebush and planted
it right outside my window when I was
about seven and I still remember that so
that's something that anytime my kids
have showed like an inkling of interest
in gardening I'm like here I planted
this for you so so far I actually have
not eaten any of the atomic grapes
because Malia watches them like a hawk
but I see summer ready and I think I'm
gonna sneak just one and give it a try a
little bit of blossom end rot going on
there the rest of it will be okay that
probably happened because it's been
really try this week and then we got
rain blossom end rot for those who did
not see this on my how to grow tomatoes
video comes from lack of calcium in your
plant which generally is an absorption
issue
I am i probably will try just the the
tip of pushing some tums into the soil
and crush dissolving some tums into some
water and spraying the plant down just
to see if it makes a difference but
really the main thing to avoid blossom
end rot is even watering I haven't had
any of it on my two main tomato rows
where all my slices are or on my road
cherries but I did amend all of that
soil with tums so I don't know some
people argue that that's not like an
actual fix for blossom in rot but it's
far so far for me in my garden it has
shown to work alright let's stop talking
and try this tomato so good this is a
really neat tomato they just look really
cool
that green flesh
they get purple purple streaks if
they're in the Sun because we have
anthocyanin but it's really good it's
sweet but not like super sweet it's got
its it's like a really good mix of sweet
and that good acid II tomato flavor no I
came through yesterday and picked all
the tomatoes that were good and right
because we were about to get rain and I
didn't want them to crack this is an
aunt Ruby's German green he's got a
little bit of a blush color to it got
some blemishes and some cracking this
plant is very beautiful and very healthy
this is a trampled striped which I don't
know if these are actually supposed to
be striped tomatoes but I haven't had
any that were striped yet they're all
solid yellow this is my mystery plant
that is labeled as brought black creme
it is certainly not black creme this
plant is coming along quite nicely this
is black beauty there's another wild
boar farms tomato and it is gorgeous
look at that when did that purple blue
and black tomatoes are colored by the
presence of anthocyanins which in the
case of black beauty is one of the
highest occurrences of anthocyanin in a
tomato which you can see here even the
leaves are like blue purple really neat
and that is more prevalent in the parts
of the plant that are exposed to the Sun
now we do prune quite a lot and so this
plant also has some hornworm damage
where we didn't come check for them with
black lights after a few days and they
kind of tore tore up some of the leaves
here so these fruits are getting a lot
of Sun so that's why they're so dark
here is a little Kellogg's breakfast oh
and I'm really excited about this my
first one to harvest this is called
peach blow Sutton it has a few blemishes
in it from bugs but you can see its
shape is very peach like this is my
first time to grow this and this is my
first time to get one I'm just gonna
give it a try and see see how it tastes
ma'am first of all if it has a ton of
gel and see it's look at that like
really thin walled and then a lot of
seeds the flavor is really mild which
may be attributed to the fact that we
did get rain yesterday and this tomato
is pretty ripe yesterday so you might
have taken on a lot of that water it's
very juicy but it's good
yeah it really is just that that full of
seeds and gel I don't know what this
would be super great for I mean I guess
fresh eating you probably wouldn't want
to try to can it because of how much I
mean it has very little flesh the walls
are just really thin I don't know it's
pretty cool I don't know I'm not really
good at like making decisions on whether
I like something on the fly because I
need time to really think about it so
maybe I'll try this a couple more times
and tell you how I really feel I'm not
like I'm not like oh my god this is the
best tomato I've ever had but to be fair
I like meaty Tomatoes so it sort of has
a strike against it from the beginning
but some people may really enjoy that
the flavor is really good it's very very
juicy but it's very mild it's not like a
really strong tomato flavor have to try
one um you know that hasn't taken on a
lot of rain to really get a good feel
with the flavor you know has the
potential to be what I'm gonna do is
this is with the rest of it I'm just
gonna set it down here and I'm gonna
take that in and save the seeds out of
that now because I did not have that
tomato in a blossom bag which is what we
do here we put these little these little
bags over the blossoms to keep
cross-pollination from happening and
since that one wasn't in one I can't be
a hundred percent sure that there wasn't
cross-pollination and if those seeds are
actually going to produce that same
tomato so what I'll do is save those and
I'll mark on the bag you know saved from
two thousand
eighteen garden possibly
cross-pollinated and so next year I will
try I'll start one see how it does and
if it is in fact peach illicit and then
I can go back to that bag cross out the
possibly cross pollinated thing and know
that I have pure seeds I've got lots
more Tomatoes blushing but not many more
ready on these Rose do you remember my
jelly melon that just took off and went
completely majestic well it's kind of
disappointing there's a pissed in the
garden how are you doing out of the
fence what are you doing out of the
fence leave the gate open that's my
puppy bear he is only eight months old
he's a good dog except for all this home
back to the jelly melon now it's really
the heat is the problem and I may have
over planted this bed I put one plant in
each corner of this bed is around like
five by five feet and I don't know it's
not for lack of pollinators but the
thing just never set very many flowers
so I'm gonna have to read into it and
see what happened there's one fruit here
and they are really neat things I don't
know when it's gonna be ready oh there's
a little leaf footed bug on there I
don't know when it's gonna be ready it's
got you know just a couple of of little
ones but it's drying up most of them are
drying up I have made sure to keep it
really watered it's never wilted at all
it just started drying up so I'm not a
hundred percent sure I'm I'm gonna let
it run its course a little while longer
and see and I'm gonna try to let that
particular fruit get as big as possible
so I can save the seeds out of it and
try this one again because I just had a
few seeds I gotten from a swap and here
is the tomatillo jungle have completely
obstructed this
path but I noticed yesterday I had some
ripe and ready so I'm going to start
picking these for the first time look at
that
obviously this is purple tomatillo and
you know they're done when the husks dry
up and start bursting open my zinnia is
looking lovely and my sunflowers are
coming to the end of their run I've been
watching this big one right here to see
when I can harvest the seeds I feel like
I want to let it dry out just a little
bit more but as you can see right there
can you see all of those wonderful
sunflower seeds how massive that head is
like I mean I'll have particularly large
hands but still I like baby hands I'm
planning on harvesting the seeds out of
these sunflowers and I'm probably going
to replant some in the same exact spots
where these are I might plant a few more
in the raised beds and go back to all of
the holes back there where you saw the
other sunflowers planted and cultivate
little spots planting sunflowers there
as well so that we have these through
the fall may notice it's looking a
little bare back here that is because I
tore out those cucumbers yesterday they
were on this trellis and I'm giving
these just a little while longer to
finish ripening a couple fruits they
have they're setting a few flowers still
but the plants are getting sort of sick
and I think what I'm going to do is go
ahead and tear them out once they finish
those you know that I think there's two
on there they're still coming along and
I'm going to replant this whole trellis
with cucumbers again so that we have
more coming up as the weather starts
cooling off a little bit we have a
wonderfully long growing season in
Arkansas and our last frost is typically
the end of March beginning of April and
our first frost is typically towards the
end of October and sometimes we make it
into
November before it actually gets cold so
we have the the ability to actually
plant like two rounds of stuff sometime
so at this point it's the beginning of
July and it's not too late for me to be
replanting cucumbers summer squashes and
I'm actually planning on trying
something and today I'm gonna be
starting some more tomato plants first
it is time to harvest the okra jungle
I totally miss that one
a lot of my peppers are finally really
starting this is a seasoning pepper
called arroz con pollo and it's got a
few on it coming down here I get the
rest of the okra there's quite a lot of
the Hill Country variety of okra is
starting to take the lead as far as
production goes some of these plants are
covered and they are remaining covered
every time I check there's more and more
so it was a pretty good pretty good
little harvest you can see in there
already got Sun I did have one hill
country that had completely eluded me
check out that monster big big okras are
just weird-looking so I pulled out the
Dragon tongue Bush means there's nothing
there right now I'm gonna remote this
and probably just leave it for I don't
know I probably won't leave it very long
I've got to decide what to do with it
and today I'm going to be harvesting the
seeds off of some of my noodle beans as
well as harvesting the young beans that
are small enough to eat I had missed
some of the pods by going out of town
for a couple of days and they got a
little big to eat so I've just left them
here to dry and you can feel now the
seeds are in there so when you're when
you're harvesting beans to replant
it's quite simple you just allow them to
dry on the plant you want them to be
fully mature you want this size to be as
big as they're gonna get so that you
have mature you know beans so they can
grow new plants if you don't if you're
not able to let them drown the plant you
can pick them fully mature and hang them
to dry in your house but it's really
best to let them dry on the plant and
then you just open them and take the
beans out it's that simple
now these because they've been outside
and
it's been raining they might have a
teensy bit of moisture left in them I'm
gonna go ahead and put them in a ziplock
baggie right now but when I get inside
my house I'm gonna pour them out onto a
paper towel on the counter and just give
them a day or so there to fully dry to
make sure that I don't put them in a
sealed plastic bag with moisture or else
they'll mold the card sorry melons on
this trellis are coming up nicely
they're doing really well this one is in
pantyhose because I was just seeing if
it helped it but every time I see it I
think no one's starting to turn because
they kind of turn orange II look at that
now the stems not dried up yet and it's
beginning to show the first signs of
drying so that's not ready I'm gonna
leave it there a little while longer
that it should be ready here pretty soon
all right it's time to pick the Tabasco
peppers I'm not gonna do this on camera
because I think this is probably going
to take me I mean it's probably gonna
take close to 45 minutes to pick all of
these off of these three plants I will
probably pickle these whole to use like
as pepper juice for greens and that sort
of thing and I may try fermenting some
of them to make a hot sauce oh look it's
kind of a mottled mist down there in the
shade but that is the first tomato off
of these plants right here on the other
side of this chalice oh well it's not
winning any sort of beauty contests but
I bet it tastes pretty good let's go
check some of the other tomato plants
come on bear pepper that is a core bocce
sweet pepper and is putting on the fruit
got some tomatoes in here those are the
imposter paul robeson I was told Paul
Robeson seeds and some of them turned up
yes I got a hold of that one where it
might have just been some rotting from
the cracking still feels like about half
of its good you can cut away bad spots
off tomatoes but yeah in the package of
parts and seeds that I received half of
them fit the standard of what that fruit
is supposed to look like but this this
plant definitely doesn't know it has the
right color but totally wrong sighs all
of my ancho poblano pepper plants are
really loaded and all these peppers get
a good deal larger I'm going to be
drying all of them and making chili
powder so I'm just leaving those alone
for now and here I have what's called a
Marconi red which obviously has not
turned red yet when you're my cousin who
bought me this little shaker jar of a
smoked Marconi red pepper and it was
just like a seasoning shaker and she
bought it from someone who was selling
it and they they were also selling these
pecans which had that smoked red pepper
and sugar on them and like how you can
buy like candied pecans at the mall or
you know festivals and stuff and it was
amazing it was one of my favorite things
I've ever eaten and I was never able to
find that again and I remembered what it
was called
sweet Marconi red and so this year I
grew those peppers and I'm going to try
my hand at smoking them and grinding
them up to recreate that seasoning that
I liked so much if you saw my vlog on
the 4th of July
I picked five pounds of cherry tomatoes
and it looks like I've got a lot to pick
again I haven't done I don't pick very
many since then other than what we've
just eaten fresh while we're down in the
garden so I'm gonna set to picking these
guys and we'll see how many we end up
with at the risk of sounding like a wild
boar farms commercial I do grow a lot of
Brad's varieties and this the the
blueberry and the blue gold berry which
are both cherries that are high in
antecedent so they have a lot of purple
and blue on them these are the most
prolific cherry tomatoes I've ever grown
these plants are just insanely covered I
have two of each kind they're planted
side by side here about 20 inches apart
and there are so many of these tomatoes
on these plants and they just keep going
I mean they're the tallest of all the
tomatoes in my garden
they are probably considering that
they're about a foot off the ground in
the raised bed they're probably about
seven feet tall right now in just no
sign of stopping not a single sign of
blight on them very healthy plants no no
sickness at all and last year they just
kept going so long that we just got
tired of picking them and we just let
them go now with all that I have shown
you of the wild boar Farms varieties
that I grow I want to clarify that these
are not air limps a lot of people buy
their seeds from places like Baker Creek
and they're like oh I'm growing heirloom
plants now I am like the biggest fan of
heirlooms that I know I love heirlooms
but I'm not completely married to only
growing them now wild boar farms
varieties are open pollinated hybrids
they have been developed within our
generation and Brad gates is a guy that
started breeding Tomatoes quite a while
ago but variety has to generally be
around for 50 years in order to be
considered an heirloom now these are the
heirlooms of future generations you know
these seeds will be handed down and
established as a stable variety to be
grown but right now they're just too
newbie to be called that but that
doesn't make them but hybrids that are
open pollinated it's just a matter of
breeding plants so all of the heirlooms
that we grow you know stuff like
Cherokee purple that's a pretty well
known heirloom I mean that was developed
within the last hundred years at one
point that was a hybrid where someone
cross two plants to make it now the
hybridization of plants and big
agriculture is so alarming because it's
done in labs by people who have the
capacity to splice genes into plants
that are in even plant genes I've read
about experiments done with pesticides
being basically worked into the plant
genetically in a laboratory with fish
genes being worked into the plant
because it creates certain resistances
to diseases and that's alarming because
essentially we're eating this giant
science experiment that hasn't had the
test of time to actually say that it's
okay however hybridization whenever
you're talking about open pollinated
hybrids is done by bees or an attentive
garden or using a paintbrush I mean
right here we're talking about something
completely natural now an f1 hybrid
hasn't been stabilized yet which simply
means that you could save the seeds of
an F Wood hybrid you're just not going
to get a tomato that's exactly the same
as the tomato that you said the seeds
from because you have to direct parents
like heirloom parents that create the f1
hybrid and when you save that seed it
might take on more traits of one of the
heirloom parents or more traits of the
other so if you say to the seed of like
a Sun Gold cherry tomato you might plant
that and end up with something that
wasn't a show tomato at all that was a
lot larger however you'll still get a
tomato and f1 hybrids they're not
sterile they just aren't stable so a lot
of times people take them on set of oh
if I grow a hybrid the seed is useless
really depends on what kind of hybrid
you're growing and if you're growing any
of wild-boar farms tomatoes you're
growing a hybrid it's just a stable a
stable plant that now it has a new name
because it's a new variety but it
started from crossing plants it started
from hybridization it just makes a huge
difference
on whether or not it's open pollinated
so when you're buying your seeds keep an
eye out because if it says f1 that means
you're not going to be able to save
those seeds and get the same kind of
tomato but you could save the seeds and
get a tomato so they're not
unsustainable however if you see open
pollinated hybrid or if it's just not
marked as an heirloom that doesn't
necessarily mean it's a bad thing all of
this from 4 plants which were completely
picked clean of ripe fruits four days
ago my dad just got here he comes out on
Saturday mornings and brings doughnuts
to my boys he's helping me pick all of
these cherry tomatoes they had that
escalated really quickly man I think we
probably got at least another five
pounds these cherry tomatoes and keeping
me on my toes there's a lot of tomatoes
hey sweet man are you coming to see me
in the garden yeah my Gardens where I'm
showing all the beautiful things in my
garden the Keuka melons are coming along
and I think that they could stand to get
just a little bit bigger but they've
kind of stalled on growing so I don't
know how much larger they're gonna get
I'm sort of just leaving them to see
what happens because I have never done
them before but I'm planning on picking
them and doing some refrigerator pickles
I think these would make a really good
little refrigerator pickles I don't
think that they would stand up to being
canned because I think they would get
really mushy and on the other side of
here I have these Amish paste Tomatoes
look at this monster these things are
huge last year my Amish paste tomatoes
did not do nearly this well that's why I
didn't grow very many this year had I
known they were gonna be this awesome
I'm totally
would have grown more than just this one
plant this is a pink ox heart which is
when I started later but it's also a
pace and it is looking wonderful as well
this is a marble of Four Seasons lettuce
which has grown up and bolted and gone
the seed I've never saved lettuce seed
before so I really didn't know what to
expect but it is pretty straightforward
basically the plant grows up it puts off
all of these pods which opens into
yellow flowers and then they turn into
little puffs that look a lot like
dandelions and inside each of these
there are these little black seeds so
those are the lettuce seeds so as these
have been opening I've been taking them
and storing them into a little baggie
because I love this lettuce it's called
marvel of four seasons it's a really
pretty butter head type and with the
amount of seeds I'm getting just from
the two plants here that I have allowed
to go to seed I should be able to grow
as much lettuce as I could possibly want
for a while only downside of letting
plants like that go to seed in your
raised garden beds is that you are going
to be dealing with those plants
volunteering there you know I mean all
year I've been pulling up some volunteer
tomatoes or my cherry tomatoes were last
year and volunteer basil just all over
the place it's just all in the bed I
don't even know that I will start basil
next year because of how much has grown
you know that I didn't even invite to
the party dried beans are starting to
dry this is exciting these are not fully
tried yet
these are the skunk beans are they
beautiful I picked my first two melons
this week one was the banana melon that
was growing here I've got a couple more
that are coming up on being ready and
then over here was a collective farm
woman melon both of them had really good
flakes of an animal and was like a
really mild cantaloupe the flesh is
really thin in it so I'm not crazy about
it but I did like it enough to probably
grow it again the collective farm woman
I really enjoyed it was a personal sized
melon and it had a little bit of a
honeydew flavor with green flesh and
very refreshing and very mildly sweet
the incan cream puff squash is looking
majestic and here I have two more
pineapple ground cherries which are
doing really well we did deal with a lot
of bugs this year but there's still
quite a lot of fruits we typically eat
them fresh the kids love them and we
love them I have yet to pick like a
harvest of these here I've got a mystery
tomato plant that I I bought on a
clearance rack at the end it was from
this local nursery that does organics
and they sell them at the local grocery
store I have no idea what it is though
it's kind of got some green streaky's on
it and I would describe the flavor as
sweet it's got to be an heirloom because
that nursery does those or an open
pollinated variety and think it's
probably an heirloom but I don't know I
have no idea what it is does anybody
else have any guesses and I couldn't
start hollering at me whenever I get
down on the side of the garden cuz I
can't see me from up in their yard here
we have more cucumbers
they are really struggling with the heat
like these are well watered but they're
already drooping again so I'll go ahead
and give them some more water but
they're starting to put off these really
wonky shaped fruits as you can see here
this is what most of our cucumbers are
looking like these days which is just
because it's so hot
that's all this the other day and I left
it to show you guys look at this I mean
it's I mean it's stuck I think I'll
probably have to cut it to get it off
but it grew and and the trellis and got
stuck right into it this is not funny I
have really kind of neglected this
corner of my garden there are just
several things over here that I pin it's
an afterthought and I forgot about it
here's a couple of beets
I don't expect a lot out of the flavor
of these because it's so hot they're
pretty they're pretty dry I'm gonna try
to grow beets again in the fall which is
really a better time of year to do those
here in Arkansas Maya is removing the
front from the potato boxes now I kind
of messed up on these this year because
I've never grown potatoes before and I
did the wrong thing however we're gonna
dig them out and see what we've got you
know take the Front's off of these the
idea of doing potatoes in boxes like
this is that you can continue to add
straw and compost to your potato plants
and they will continue to grow as you
mound them up putting off more and more
potatoes however I made a mistake in
buying the potato varieties that I did I
did not buy indeterminate potato variety
didn't actually know there was a
difference because I had not grown them
before and by the time I read that there
was a difference I was a little late
getting them in and then everywhere that
I went was sold out of potatoes so I
ended up going to the only place I could
find them locally which was the Home
Depot and buying what they had as far as
seed potatoes however
the potatoes that I bought were as it
turns out early potatoes which means
they are determinants and therefore
they're no good for mounting our potato
boxes were a little bit of a flop as far
as producing a whole lot of potatoes in
a small space but we should have at
least something there so I'm gonna dig
those out today and see what we've got
but first we're going to take a quick
look down these rows now I saw yesterday
that I'm finally getting some sweet
peppers turning here I'm gonna let them
go just a couple more days but I'm super
excited
these um I've got core bocce sweets and
Jimmy and our demos which are both an
heirloom variety of long curly sweet
pepper and what I like to do with those
is cut the caps off and put them in the
dehydrator just long enough for them to
take on kind of like a fruit leathery
type consistency I don't like them to be
completely dry but I do they're really
good I get real chewy and very sweet and
here are the lima beans I think some of
them are getting pretty close let's take
a look at what's going on inside here I
love lemon beans they're really
delicious
[Music]
these are called Christmas lava beans or
some people call them large speckled
lima beans you can just show them cook
them cook them up with some butter in
them so good enough to eat a serving of
it I've got a couple handfuls that are
ready I'm gonna go ahead and pick them
and show them I don't think there's
enough to make like a family size
serving and I may just have some llama
beans for lunch here are more sad
dried-up runner beans now these have
done a little bit better I do have some
beans on here but as you can see some of
the plants are really struggling that's
another thing I'm planning on trying
again in the fall and seeing how they do
and a little bit cooler weather I
cleaned out the kale in this bed so now
this area is empty and since then the
chard has really taken off I didn't know
how it would do in the heat but it seems
to be doing quite well so we've been
picking some of that it's really great
just cut up and sauteed with a few fried
eggs it's one of my favorite things to
eat for breakfast okay so the potato
beds it's time to dig them I actually
really miss getting my hands dirty you
know like we get out of the season of
planting I've never grown fine Oh
send a tiny baby one hey so maybe I'm
going through these too soon I don't
know would they get bigger if I waited a
little so I really don't know about this
I don't know a lot about growing
potatoes
I should really know more this is I said
this and like the first garden tour I
did that I wasn't gonna show you guys
this I don't know what I'm talking about
and it really bothers me they're not
know what I'm talking about these are
really tiny so I don't I don't think I
need to dig them up yet but yes the
plants are definitely dying back so I
don't know maybe you guys you tell me
what to do I don't know what to do about
these potatoes make some of them seem to
be the right size I'm gonna try one of
the other beds because it's a few
different varieties I'm gonna try one of
the other beds and see what I get
there's my seed potato she's looking
pretty gnarly oh these look good
so it's kind of deformed but curling
underground stuff is so hard for me
because I am so not patient at all I
think I can't tell you how many dinky
little carrots I've harvested because I
just couldn't wait any longer I love how
all of you are watching me garden is if
I really know what I'm talking about
it's like sometimes I'm like I have no
idea what I'm doing I'm just doing it
and seeing what will happen Cait I got a
few more handfuls I'm gonna check that
last box I'm a man I think there's
probably more in here but I'm gonna come
back maybe this evening and digging a
little more thoroughly I've gotta know
my goats this morning so I don't want to
spend too much time just trying to dig
out this whole bed however I do have
several here I feel okay about it I
think that it could have gone a lot
better obviously this is better than
nothing and also digging potatoes it's
like really very satisfying oh I'm sure
there are more potatoes in these boxes
but like I said I don't really have the
time this morning to look for them but I
am excited that we got something out of
it I will definitely do it differently
next year by buying varieties I know are
indeterminate and continuing to mound of
the compost and straw on top of them
however you know for my very first time
I'm pretty excited to have grown
potatoes at all well YouTube it has been
another lovely walk through the garden
I've really enjoyed getting to share
this with you guys this year and we look
forward to continuing on through the
rest of the summer and into the fall
garden thank you so much for joining me
on these tours I am going to go milk my
goats
make some more salsa eat some potatoes
and lima beans and i'll see you guys
next time
[Music]